# ERC-4337

It’s a **new Ethereum upgrade** that went live Feb-March 2023.

**First… What is it?** ERC-4337 introduces something called Account Abstraction, which allows Ethereum wallets to operate as smart contracts.

Still hazy? Here’s what it enables:

- **Recovering lost private keys.** There’s a new "social recovery system" where designated users have the ability to restore access to a wallet, should someone lose their private keys
- **Securing wallets without a seed phrase.** Users can enable 2FA and biometrics (fingerprint or facial scan) to protect their wallets. _Sayonara to those 12-word seed phrases_
- **Carrying out automated payments and setting time-based spending limits** (i.e. you can set monthly spending limits on a wallet)
- **Sending gasless transactions.** Decentralized applications can "sponsor" gas fees (aka cover the costs) to make things cheaper and simpler for their customers

**Why does it matter?** The upgrade enables a lot of the same features a bank offers, without needing to trust a bank.

By merging crypto wallets with smart contracts, Account Abstraction makes for more secure and efficient transactions, ultimately making crypto more user-friendly.

Plus, it makes some of the previously "impossible" stuff (like wallet recovery, seedless wallets, etc.) possible.

[Why we need wide adoption of social recovery wallets](https://vitalik.ca/general/2021/01/11/recovery.html)

[Account Abstraction: Past, Present, Future](https://metamask.io/news/latest/account-abstraction-past-present-future/)

[The Future of Wallets: MPC vs Smart Wallets by Ivo Georgiev | Devcon Bogotá - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=85w0TvZMivA)
